>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about JSON.
Okay, so we're here on JSON.
We're gonna go into
the SQLite extensions here.
So as I mentioned probably a bit earlier,
SQLite intentionally maintains a really
tight, small core features and
they intentionally push everything out.
That's not just a database
function into extensions.
They made it very easy to add extensions,
and Dr. Hip himself,
as I'm gonna guess,
has written dozens of extensions,
many much extensions is
the technical term for it.
And then there's a bunch of
other ones that have been
written by other really smart people.
And there is a cool, unofficial package
manager for SQLite called sqlpkg.
And you can see here that, there's been
one added since I wrote this l last week.
So there's now 103 extensions in
their unofficial extension store.
You can see all these
written by Richard Hipp.
That's the creator of SQLite.
Alex Garcia is another one that's a pretty
proficient person,
as is this Anton as well.
So there's a bunch of them in here.
I'm gonna show you how
to use this quickly so
that you can use it in
the future if you want to.
So first thing here is we're
gonna use one called hello,
which I think is written by Alex Garcia.
It's just like the Hello World
of SQLite extensions.
We can really just say, hello.
It's really meant for testing, so
that you can test that extensions are
loading correctly and that kinda stuff.
It's also kinda helpful if you're
interested in how they work.
I am not a C developer, so I'm not going
to try and pretend I know how to do this.
But yeah,
we're gonna load the hello extension.
Okay, so first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna go to the,
I think this is
the installation instructions.
Both of these should work.
If you're comfortable with like
the pipe into shell command,
which you probably shouldn't be,
but I still do it all the time.
You can also just do the download and
install manually kinda thing.
If we're being honest,
I just did this one, and so far,
that they've only stolen my credit card,
and that's it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, once you have that
installed, let's put my terminal here,
you should end up with a,
sorry, mute that,
you should end up with
a SQL package right there.
And it's a package manager, cool.
And from there, we're just gonna do this,
right there, sqlpkg install this repo.
And I think that should work.
Mine, I have already installed it,
so it's gonna say, cool.
I did that already.
But if you haven't,
it should go and install it.
And then what you wanna do right after
that is you wanna run this which command,
which is going to give you
the actual pathway to your package.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, interesting that
it didn't give me, all right, hold on.
I think this is giving me a relative path,
which is actually not what I want.
So if I go to personal,
>> Brian Holt: sqlite-app.
I'd run that again.
Yeah, see, it's gonna give me a full path.
You want a full path,
and I think that's just cuz I was
hanging out in my home directory.
You want the whole path so
that SQLite will load it correctly.
So I'm just gonna open
my database again here.
There we go.
And I think it's just.load in that path,
if I'm not mistaken.
It didn't yell at me, so
I'm assuming that's correct.
And then I'm gonna do SELECT hello(
'Brian' ), and I should get Hello,, Brian.
That's how you know that our
extension loaded correctly.
So as you can see, pretty straightforward,
very light in the sense
that it's not that hard.
You just point it to this dylib,
which is what the file extension for
SQLite extensions is.
And then you just run a SELECT
hello ( 'Brian' ), there you go.
So yeah,
this might seem like weird syntax.
This is just a function.
You can also just do SELECT max (1,2,3,4).
You can do this if you're just
trying to test stuff out, right?
I do it all the time.
But it has to be phrased in the form
of SELECT statement, otherwise, SQLite
doesn't know what to do with it, which
is why you see this SELECT afterwards.
What's really weird is I see a lot
of these extensions that are adding
additional capabilities, like time
series and sync and that kinda stuff.
You'll have to run a SELECT do__thing_to
db(123, 5), or something like that.
And it's a SELECT statement, but
this function here will actually go and
write to your database.
I really don't like that pattern,
because you write a SELECT statement and
it doesn't make any sense
that they would do that.
But anyway,
you will see that it's becoming more and
more common because it's the way you
have to run a function within Postgres,
within SQL, at any version of SQL.
Probably worth poking around,
it's kinda fun.
There's a bunch of really
cool packages on here.
Browse all extensions.
Protobufs, That's kind of interesting.
You can make HTTP request directly
from SQLite, which is kinda cool.
So you end up doing something like,
>> Brian Holt: Load http_get_body.
There's a bunch of stuff in there.
And then you can do that, and you can
do JSON extraction from SQL commands.
I don't know why you wanna do that,
but you could, right?
I guess it could take
your place of your cURL.
That seems like a terrible idea,
but you could.
I don't know, I'm not your mom.
You can do whatever you want.
Okay, so yeah, have peruse around there.
This is the one I'm probably
most excited about, vec.
This is the one that's coming out from
Alex Garcia that it's a vector search,
right?
So instead of having Pinecone or
something like that,
you can run this all with an SQLite,
which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: It's not out yet,
but I should mention that,
that it is still in alpha or
beta or something like that.